And very finally, I would say,
think about taking your design
system to the next level, right?
So once you've got all that basic stuff
in, there's loads of other things that I
would consider design-system--adjacent or
even a part of a design system.
So for example, design principles,
you're aware of design principles?
So this is the idea of having
certain principles in place that act
as a framework to help
make design decisions.
So ensuring that everything
is approached in
an objective, clear, concise manner.
So those ones on the screen that are a bit
hard to read are from the UK government,
and they include principles like,
start with the user's needs, do less.
Design with data,
do the hard work to make things simple.
Kind of underlying principles about
how we're gonna approach design.
What's our attitude towards this?
To things like make it for everyone, so
it's accessible, those kinds of things.
Having those principles in place sounds
a bit like airy fairy and a bit kind of,
ooh, let's define our manifesto,
and all of that kind of rubbish.
But actually, they're really quite useful.
You get consistent
decision-making across projects.
It focuses you on the overall objectives
of what you're trying to do from a design
perspective.
It ensures that you're more user-centric.
But best of all, it gives you a big old
hammer to hit stakeholders with when they
wanna do something stupid.
Well, we agreed on these
design principles, and
what you're saying is not one
of our design principles.
Don't do it like that.
The other thing you might wanna look at is
creating a digital playbook or a design
playbook, which is a comprehensive
guide to all your best practices,
your strategies,
your tools, your workflows.
I create a lot of these for organizations.
So just like,
let's get it all down, right?
Let's get it all written down as policies
and procedures of how we operate.
Again, it's really good for hitting
stakeholders around the head with, right?
So, you have a greed set of
processes that you go through.
You always do usability testing, for
example, is a great process to put in.
It gives you a shared
repository of knowledge.
So as people leave the organization and
new people come in,
you've got it all written down.
And it also improves collaboration.
And it can empower people as well,
cuz it teaches them best practice and
what to do and things like that.
And a part of that should
be content style guide,
that's a part of your design system,
really.
Because content style guide is
gonna give you consistency,
it's gonna ensure quality,
is gonna make you more efficient.
So there's a lot, in your design system,
can be bigger than just a load
of components in figma and code.
But that can come later, as I was saying
in the course that I ran previously.
Something is better than nothing.
Don't despise those small beginnings.
Start with the basics and
build up from there.
So just to wrap that talk
about design systems up,
a design system is an invaluable tool,
right?
If it's planned carefully, right?
Or it can be an enormous waste of money
and time, so be careful about that.
When creating a design system, start with
your styles, move on to your elements, and
finally work on those components.
But remember that design system is gonna
need a carefully considered rollout.
And that it's much more than
a set of UI elements, and
you can build upon that long-term.